# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

- In console.rb file - Property.new

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

- In the property.rb file in the models folder

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

- Property.delete_all()
delete()
save()
update()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

- As we don't know what ID will be assigned to it and it is also unique for each instance - therefore don't want to have to create id manually

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

- In the property.rb file, in the save method. When saving a new instance of property class, "returning id" is used inside sql (could we go over this again please?) This is then assigned to the object

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

- To check if the id exists and is has been assigned - this prevents the function from trying to pass an ID in if it doesn't exist

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

- Some methods are called on instances such as update - as we are updating a specific instance. However other methods are called on the whole class such as delete all, as this is deleting all objects in a class.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

- Returns an array of hashes - can access if by index [0] and then [id]

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

- To prevent SQL injection attacks.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

- The first takes in the ID as the argument (INT) and the second takes in the address as the argument (string.)

Q11. What are their return values?

- They return a property object if found (nil if not found)
